# Analytic-Causatives
This is a repo for my analytic causatives.
Abstract

This paper presents an overview of analytic causatives of Ethiopian Afro-Asiatic languages. I shall show that, on the basis of main verbs, Ethiopian Afro-Asiatic languages have two types of analytic causatives. One of these analytic causatives employs inchoative form of verb to be as a matrix verb of the causer event while the other one employs the verb to do as the main verb of the causer event of an analytic causative. 
The inchoative form of the verb to be that serves as a main verb of the causer event itself is always a complex verb because the causative morpheme and agreement elements are suffixed to it. The causative morpheme which is attached to such an inchoative form of the verb to be can be single or double depending on the language and the number of causers. This means that if a language permits double causative and the number of causers is two in the analytic causative, the causative morpheme that is added to the inchoative verb is two, and so on. But some other Ethiopian Afro-Asiatic languages use only the verb to do as a main verb of the causer event. In languages where the verb to do is used as a main verb its form shows variations. In some languages the verb to do is a deponent (frozen base) and in order to be used as a main verb of the analytic causative structure, it must get the causative morpheme attached to it. The causative morpheme that is attached to such frozen base can be single or double. In some other languages the verb to do is an already existing verb and it can be used as a main verb of the analytic causative structure as is or as a complex verb form since it can add one or two causative morphemes. Moreover, the paper discusses analytic causatives on the basis of oppositions of causative and non-causative members. Particularly, the paper investigates the verb to be and the verb to do as correlational opposites to serve as the basis for analytic causative. Moreover, the paper considers some ideophones and analytic causatives as oppositions of causative and non-causative members. I also show that Ethiopian analytic causatives have strict word order; the subject of the main sentence precedes the subject of the embedded sentence while the verb of the main sentence follows the verb of embedded sentence. The paper also considers structures of analytic causatives in terms of grammatical function changes. 
